
Dear Professor Hanhart,

Please find attached our manuscript "Mixture models for distance sampling detection functions", which we hereby submit for publication in Biometrics.  In the manuscript, we propose a new class of models for the analysis of distance sampling surveys of wildlife populations (specifically for fitting the detection function); we show that the new class has both theoretical advantages over the current standard approach as well as practical benifits when applied to both simulated and real data.  We suggest the new class of models be used alongside the current standard method, with standard model selection techniques used to select the best model for inference.  To facilitate this, we provide an R package (mmds), and will also incorporate the approach in the next major release of our industry-standard software Distance.  Given the demonstrated advantages of the new approach, and the ease of use, we expect to see it gain wide useage.

Regarding the appropriate section of Biometrics, we feel it best fits into the Biometric Practice section, based on the online guidance that this section is appropriate for papers that "demonstrate innovative applications of existing methods [mixture modelling] to a new area [distance sampling]", "propose innovative and practical data analysis strategies" and "re-examine from a new perspective statistical practices that are widely used in biometric applications, providing useful alternatives to the current standard."  However, we're quite happy to follow the co-editor's recommendation on this.  

In preparing the manuscript, we have been careful to adhere to the editorial guidelines.  In particular, we have kept the manuscript to manageable length by placing many of the more technical details on optimization and parameterization of the models into a web appendix, together with the less central simulation and case study results.

We look forward to hearing the editors' opinion of our work.

Sincerely yours,

David Miller and Len Thomas




Alternative, depricated version:

Dear Professor Hanhart,

Please find attached our manuscript, "Mixture models for distance sampling detection functions," which we wish to submit for consideration in the Biometrics Practice section.  Our work represents an innovative adaptation of an existing technique (mixture modelling) to a new area (distance sampling surveys of wildlife populations). We believe the resulting suite of methods will see wide use since, as we demonstrate through simulation and application to four case study datasets, it improves inference when combined with the current standard approach.  To facilitate use, we provide an R package (mmds), and will also incorporate the approach in the next major release of our free software Distance.  

We look forward to hearing the editors' opinion on our work.

Yours sincerely,

David Miller and Len Thomas



